# Games Sifi Halo - PAGE ONE
---
[Stolen from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halo_(franchise))

Halo is a military science fiction media franchise created by Bungie. The franchise is currently managed and developed by 343 Industries, and owned and published by Xbox Game Studios. The central focus of the franchise builds on the experiences of Master Chief Sierra-117 “John”, one of a group of supersoldiers code-named Spartans, and his artificial intelligence (AI) companion, Cortana.

The original trilogy centers on an interstellar war between humanity and an alliance of aliens known as The Covenant. The Covenant, led by their religious leaders called the Prophets, worship an ancient civilization known as the Forerunners, who perished while defeating the parasitic Flood. The eponymous Halo Array are a group of immense, habitable and ring-shaped superweapons that were created by the Forerunners to destroy the Flood, but which the Covenant mistake for religious artifacts that, if activated, would transport them on a Great Journey to meet the Forerunners. They are similar to the Orbitals in Iain M. Banks' Culture novels, and to a lesser degree to author Larry Niven's Ringworld concept.[1][2][3][4]

The games in the series are critically acclaimed, with the original considered the Xbox's "killer app".[5] This led to the term "Halo killer" being used to describe console games that aspire, or are considered, to be better than Halo.[6] Fueled by the success of Halo: Combat Evolved, and by marketing campaigns from publisher Microsoft, its sequels went on to record-breaking sales.[7][8][9] By 2015, the games had sold over 65 million copies worldwide, with the games alone grossing almost $3.4 billion.[10][11][12] As of February 2021, that figure has risen to 81 million copies.[13] Halo has since become one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time. These strong sales led to the franchise's expansion to other media; the Halo Universe now spans multiple best-selling novels, graphic novels, comic books, short movies, animated movies and feature films, as well as other licensed products.

Halo Infinite, the sixth main installment, released its multiplayer beta on November 15, 2021, which coincides with the franchise's 20th anniversary. Halo Infinite's single-player campaign, was released on December 8, 2021

## Plot
---
Hundreds of thousands of years ago, the mantle of responsibility belonged to the Forerunners. However, the Precursors wanted to remove such power from Forerunner hands and give it to the human race. In retaliation, the Forerunners drove the precursors into extinction. Among the last of the precursors, one let out a spore, hoping for it to spread and repopulate the Precursors. It spread like wildfire. However, instead of creating Precursors, the spore made a parasite known as the Flood. The Forerunners fought the Flood. The Flood, which spread through infestation of sentient life, overran much of the Milky Way Galaxy. Exhausting all other strategies, the Forerunners conceived the Halo Array — ring-shaped megastructures and weapons of last resort that would destroy all sentient life in the galaxy to stop the Flood. Delaying as long as they could, the Forerunners activated the rings and disappeared.[15]

Nearly a hundred thousand years later in the 26th century, humanity—under the auspices of the United Nations Space Command, or UNSC—colonize many worlds thanks to the development of faster-than-light "slipspace" travel. Tensions between the government and colonies desiring independence sparks violent clashes. The UNSC sponsors the SPARTAN-II Project to create an elite group of enhanced supersoldiers, whose purpose is to suppress the rebellions covertly.[16] In the year 2525, human worlds come under attack by a theocratic alliance of alien races known as the Covenant. The Covenant leadership declares humanity heretics and an affront to their gods— the Forerunners—and begin a genocidal holy war. The Covenant's superior technology and numbers prove decisive advantages; though effective, the Spartans are too few in number to turn the tide of battle in humanity's favor. After the Covenant invade Reach, the UNSC's last major stronghold besides Earth, Master Chief John-117 is one of the few remaining Spartans left.

The rediscovery of the Halo rings sets the humans against the Covenant, who believe they are instruments of transcendence, not destruction. Master Chief and his artificial intelligence Cortana are instrumental in the destruction of a Halo ring to stop the Covenant and the threat of the Flood. The Covenant descends into civil war following the expulsion of the Sangheili species, with many grappling over the revelation that their religion is false. The disgraced former Covenant Sangheili commander known as the Arbiter, along with the rest of his race, help the humans destroy the Covenant and stop its leader, Truth, from activating the Halo Array via the Ark. The Human-Covenant War ends, though conflict continues to rage throughout the universe.

In the post-war era, the UNSC creates a new generation of Spartans, and tensions between the UNSC and colonists resume. The Forerunner known as the Didact briefly returns to assert supremacy over humanity, though he is foiled by the Master Chief and Cortana, who is believed to perish in the attempt. Cortana's survival through the Forerunner repository of knowledge known as the Domain leads her to break with the UNSC and assert a new hegemony over the galaxy, with artificial intelligence (the "Created") in control. After two years of scattered conflicts, during which the Created are successful in completely dismantling the UNSC, Cortana enters into a war with the Banished, a Covenant breakaway faction largely led by the Jiralhanae race. The Banished win the resultant conflict, terminating Cortana and becoming the dominant force in the galaxy.[17]
